As we saw previously,
when we have two numeric variables,
at least one of them discrete.
Jitter and transparency, can be used to make the trends in the data clearer.
If we want to plot a quantitative variable against a qualitative variable,
we can take the same approach.
Just mapping each level of the qualitative variable,
to an arbitrary number.
For example, let's say that we have a number of game scores from three different teams.
North, Central and South.
If we associate one with North, two with Central,
and three with South,
then we could use a jittered scatter plot with team on the x -axis,
and score on the y-axis.
A more common visualization for this quantitative versus qualitative comparison,
is the violin plot.
Instead of plotting data points individually,
we have a curve for each level of the categorical variable,
whose area depicts the distribution of points.
Where the curve is wider,
there are more data points.
It's basically a smooth histogram,
or a density curve turned on its side.
For North, you can see that they scored more points in the 50's, than the 60's.
You can also see that Central tends to score more points than either North or South.
Compared to the jittered scatter plot,
having the distinct curves makes it easier to remember that the variable is categorical,
and easier to compare their distributions.